 Roger Dannenberg | Carnegie Mellon University - Computer Science Department Skip to main content Menu Toggle menu visibility Staff Faculty Current Students Prospective Students Menu Toggle menu visibility Academics Directory Research About News Events Search Toggle search visibility Search form Search Roger Dannenberg Professor of Computer Science, Art & Music Email: rbd@cs.cmu.edu Phone: (412) 268-3827 Department:Computer Science Department Administrative Support Person: Christina Contreras Research Interests: Human-Computer InteractionTechnology and Society My work is focused on various aspects of computer music, a field which poses many challenges for computer science. A central problem in computer music is expressive control, that is, the detailed control of timing, gesture, nuance, and tone quality that is essential to music. This problem has many facets, resulting in a variety of research directions. The Computer Music Project has developed new languages, development tools for real-time systems, synthesis techniques, and music understanding systems. This research is more than intrinsically interesting. It can shed light on related problems in real-time systems, multimedia, human-computer interaction, and artificial intelligence. Moreover, new possibilities of control and interaction in music are changing the very nature of music composition, performance, and aesthetics. One research example is the development of new languages for expressing temporal behavior. One of these is Nyquist, a language that provides a single abstraction mechanism for the seemingly different notions of "note," "instrument," and "musical score." Nyquist gives composers an elegant, uniform notation that spans the range from low-level digital signal processing to high-level music composition. Nyquist is not intended for interactive real-time sound generation, but concepts from Nyquist are incorporated in other systems, including one of our own named Aura. Expressive control of musical tones is another topic of research. A violin is expressive because there are many parameters under continuous control by the player, including bow pressure, finger and bow positions, and bow velocity. These give rise to variations in the resulting sound. My colleagues and I have developed a synthesis technique, spectral interpolation, which allows us to synthesize tones with interesting variations in spectra. Spectral interpolation has been used to accurately synthesize a variety of instruments. In the future, we will use this technique to give composers and performers greater intuitive control over synthesized sound. The main focus of my current research is to develop artificial computer musicians that can perform live with humans, especially in steady-beat or popular music. This task is difficult because even small synchronization errors are obvious, performers often improvise, the global structure and other details of the performance are not always known in advance, and even the choice of notes and rhythms is often left to the performer. Search Terms Find Graduate Advisors by Name - Advisors - Acar, Umut Aldrich, Jonathan Amvrosiadis, George Andersen, David Balcan, Nina Beckmann, Nathan Blelloch, Guy Brookes, Stephen Brumley, David Chen, Tianqi Crane, Keenan Crary, Karl Datta, Anupam Erdmann, Michael Faloutsos, Christos Fanti, Giulia Fredrikson, Matt Frieze, Alan Ganger, Greg Garlan, David Gibbons, Phillip Gligor, Virgil Goldstein, Seth Goyal, Vipul Gupta, Anupam Guruswami, Venkatesan Haeupler, Bernhard Harchol-Balter, Mor Harper, Robert Heule, Marijn Hodgins, Jessica Hoffmann, Jan Jia, Limin Kanade, Takeo Kolter, J. Zico Kothari, Pravesh Kumar, Swarun Lee, Tai-Sing Levin, Golan Lucia, Brandon Mason, Matthew Maxion, Roy Miller, Heather Miller, Gary Mitchell, Tom Mowry, Todd O'Donnell, Ryan O'Hallaron, David O'Toole, Matthew Parno, Bryan Pavlo, Andy Pfenning, Frank Platzer, Andr Pollard, Nancy Ravi, R. Reddy, Raj Rudich, Steven Sandholm, Tuomas Satyanarayanan, Mahadev Schwartz, Russell Sekar, Vyas Seshan, Srinivasan Shah, Nihar Shaw, Mary Sherry, Justine Shi, Elaine Siewiorek, Daniel Simmons, Reid Sleator, Daniel Steenkiste, Peter Touretzky, David Vinayak, Rashmi Korlakai Wang, Weina Woodruff, David Xing, Eric P. Yang, Yiming List Faculty by Research Interest Artificial Intelligence-Computational Neuroscience-Robotics-Machine Learning-Planning, Knowledge Representation and Game Theory-Technology and Society-Vision, Speech and Natural LanguagesSecurity-Cryptography-Security and PrivacyGraphics-Animation-VisionProgramming Languages-Formal Methods-Pure and Applied Logic-Software Engineering-Software Verification-Type TheorySystems-Computer Architecture-Databases-Data-Intensive and Cloud Computing-Distributed Systems-Human-Computer Interaction-Mobile and Pervasive Computing-Networking-Operating Systems-Scientific ComputingTheory-Algorithms and Complexity-Computational Biology-Game Theory-Performance Modeling & Analysis Computer Science Department Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Phone: 412-268-2565 Fax: 412-268-5576  Pittsburgh Campus Qatar Campus Legal Info 