 Anupam Gupta | Carnegie Mellon University - Computer Science Department Skip to main content Menu Toggle menu visibility Staff Faculty Current Students Prospective Students Menu Toggle menu visibility Academics Directory Research About News Events Search Toggle search visibility Search form Search Anupam Gupta Professor Office: 7203 Gates & Hillman Centers Email: anupamg@cs.cmu.edu Phone: (412) 268-7127 Department:Computer Science Department Web site:http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~anupamg/ Administrative Support Person: Nancy Conway Research Interests: Algorithms and ComplexityArtificial Intelligence My main research interests are in Network Design and Metric Embeddings; I also work on Approximation and Graph algorithms. Network Design and Optimization. Given a graph and a collection of userswho want to communicate with each other, the aim of network design is toprovision "good" networks satisfying the communication requirements. Asstated, things are still underspecified, and lead to many questions: e.g., what are the criteria for goodness? Are the networks capacitated?What is the cost model for allocating bandwidth? Are we routing paths (as in telephone calls), or can we deal with traffic as flows (as in packet routing)? What do communication requirements look like, and how are they specified? Furthermore, things are made more complicated by the fact that data is often not available beforehand---how does one handle uncertainity? I have been working on modeling and designing provably good algorithms for some of the problems arising from these issues. In particular, I have been working on handling uncertainity in data, and on designing networks for cost models that incorporate economies of scale. Metric Embeddings. The goal of this area is to study the structure of metric spaces, and to use this understanding in the design of algorithms for a variety of problems arising on metrics. The approach to expose the inherent structure of metrics is to map the metric into a conceptually "simpler" metric that can be used in algorithmic applications in lieu of the original metric; of course, the new simpler metric should resemble the given metric, and hence the map should not distort distances by too much. For instance, if we wanted to solve the travelling salesman problem on a metric space, and we could map the metric into a tree changing the distances by only 10%, then we could solve the TSP on the simpler metric optimally, and this would be within 10% of the optimal solution on the original graph. In recent years, embeddings have become an indispensible tool in the algorithm designer's toolbox, being very powerful and versatile; they have been used for geometric algorithms, finding good graph separators, online algorithms, network design, data structures and many other applications. Despite these successes, many fundamental problems remain open in the area, including understanding how well given metrics can be embedded into Euclidean and other normed spaces; how given data sets can be embedded into low-dimensional spaces without distorting distances substantially; how the topology of graphs interacts with their metric properties, etc. All this research proceeds hand in hand with the algorithmic applications, primarily to providing approximation algorithms for a variety of problems on graphs. Search Terms Find Graduate Advisors by Name - Advisors - Acar, Umut Aldrich, Jonathan Amvrosiadis, George Andersen, David Balcan, Nina Beckmann, Nathan Blelloch, Guy Brookes, Stephen Brumley, David Chen, Tianqi Crane, Keenan Crary, Karl Datta, Anupam Erdmann, Michael Faloutsos, Christos Fanti, Giulia Fredrikson, Matt Frieze, Alan Ganger, Greg Garlan, David Gibbons, Phillip Gligor, Virgil Goldstein, Seth Goyal, Vipul Gupta, Anupam Guruswami, Venkatesan Haeupler, Bernhard Harchol-Balter, Mor Harper, Robert Heule, Marijn Hodgins, Jessica Hoffmann, Jan Jia, Limin Kanade, Takeo Kolter, J. Zico Kothari, Pravesh Kumar, Swarun Lee, Tai-Sing Levin, Golan Lucia, Brandon Mason, Matthew Maxion, Roy Miller, Heather Miller, Gary Mitchell, Tom Mowry, Todd O'Donnell, Ryan O'Hallaron, David O'Toole, Matthew Parno, Bryan Pavlo, Andy Pfenning, Frank Platzer, Andr Pollard, Nancy Ravi, R. Reddy, Raj Rudich, Steven Sandholm, Tuomas Satyanarayanan, Mahadev Schwartz, Russell Sekar, Vyas Seshan, Srinivasan Shah, Nihar Shaw, Mary Sherry, Justine Shi, Elaine Siewiorek, Daniel Simmons, Reid Sleator, Daniel Steenkiste, Peter Touretzky, David Vinayak, Rashmi Korlakai Wang, Weina Woodruff, David Xing, Eric P. Yang, Yiming List Faculty by Research Interest Artificial Intelligence-Computational Neuroscience-Robotics-Machine Learning-Planning, Knowledge Representation and Game Theory-Technology and Society-Vision, Speech and Natural LanguagesSecurity-Cryptography-Security and PrivacyGraphics-Animation-VisionProgramming Languages-Formal Methods-Pure and Applied Logic-Software Engineering-Software Verification-Type TheorySystems-Computer Architecture-Databases-Data-Intensive and Cloud Computing-Distributed Systems-Human-Computer Interaction-Mobile and Pervasive Computing-Networking-Operating Systems-Scientific ComputingTheory-Algorithms and Complexity-Computational Biology-Game Theory-Performance Modeling & Analysis Computer Science Department Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Phone: 412-268-2565 Fax: 412-268-5576  Pittsburgh Campus Qatar Campus Legal Info 